---
title: "Performance evaluation of augmented reality on fog computing platform"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2020-07-01-performance-evaluation-of-augmented-reality-on-fog-computing-platform
category: "Journal Articles"
date: 2020-07-01
venue: 'International Journal of Computer Science and Trends and Technology'
slidesurl: ''  # Add URL if slides or presentation materials are available
paperurl: 'https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Kinan-Abbas/publication/342130548_Performance_Evaluation_of_Augmented_Reality_on_Fog_Computing_Platform/links/5ee3897492851ce9e7dce0b0/Performance-Evaluation-of-Augmented-Reality-on-Fog-Computation-Platform.pdf'
citation: 'Abbas, Kinan Nabeh, and Ahmad, Ahmad Saker. (2020). &quot;Performance evaluation of augmented reality on fog computing platform.&quot; <i>International Journal of Computer Science and Trends and Technology</i>, 8(3), pp. 57-63.'
---
Despite the massive development in cloud computing technologies to be in line with the evolution of the Internet of Things (IoT), cloud computing remains somewhat weak in handling applications that require real-time processing. Moreover, since most of the IoT applications are classified as real-time applications (such as augmented reality applications), it is not possible to rely entirely on cloud computing for these applications. According to Gartner, the number of IoT devices that are to connect to the Internet by 2020 will be around 5.8 billion. With this increase in the number of devices that may be located in a small geographical area (as the case of smart cities), the amount of data transferred to the cloud will be massive and require tremendous processing capabilities by the cloud to satisfy it. This is only costly, but most of the current clouds fail to match the requirements of such applications and devices, hence the need for a technology to eliminate this gap between cloud computing and the Internet of things. Cisco introduced Fog Computing technology, an extension of cloud computing that places the cloud nearer to the things that generate data where it provides real-time processing and storage. This research offers a practical study to implement an augmented reality application used to enhance learning about plants in a smart city applied in Barcelona. The authors studied Fog computing implementation for 8 different application placements. Results show that the HAFA and iFogStor-G application placement policies have achieved the best service time and the lowest use of cloud processors.